{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}{\f1 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}

\pard\qc\b\fs48 GenAI Cache Cleaner for Adobe Illustrator\b0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\fs24 An utility script for Adobe Illustrator that helps you manage and clean up GenAI cache folders, freeing up valuable disk space.\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Overview\b0\fs24\par
\par
GenAI Cache Cleaner is an ExtendScript utility for Adobe Illustrator that automatically locates and allows you to delete cached data from Illustrator's Generative AI features. Over time, these cache folders can accumulate hundreds of megabytes or even gigabytes of data. This script provides an easy-to-use interface to identify, review, and delete these caches safely.\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Features\b0\fs24\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab \b Automatic Detection\b0 : Automatically locates your Illustrator preferences folder across different versions, channels (Stable/Beta/Prerelease), and platforms (macOS/Windows)\par
\bullet\tab \b Visual Overview\b0 : Displays all GenAI cache folders with their sizes and item counts at a glance\par
\bullet\tab \b Selective Deletion\b0 : Choose which cache folders to delete with checkbox selection\par
\bullet\tab \b Check All Folders\b0 : Quickly select or deselect all cache folders with a single checkbox\par
\bullet\tab \b Safety First\b0 : Provides detailed confirmation dialogs before any deletion occurs\par
\bullet\tab \b Cross-Platform\b0 : Works seamlessly on both macOS and Windows\par
\bullet\tab \b Version Aware\b0 : Automatically detects Illustrator version and adjusts folder paths accordingly\par
\bullet\tab \b Quick Navigation\b0 : Click on folder names to open them directly in your file explorer\par
\bullet\tab \b Real-time Updates\b0 : Automatically refreshes folder sizes after deletion\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Supported GenAI Features\b0\fs24\par
\par
The script manages cache folders for the following Adobe Illustrator Generative AI features:\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab \b GenAIImageToCaption\b0 : Image-to-caption generation cache\par
\bullet\tab \b GenAITextToVectors\b0 : Text-to-vector graphics generation cache\par
\bullet\tab \b GenAIRotateVector\b0 : Vector rotation AI cache\par
\bullet\tab \b GenAIRecolor\b0 : AI-powered recoloring cache\par
\bullet\tab \b GenAIPatterns\b0 : Pattern generation cache\par
\bullet\tab \b GenAIMultiDiffusion\b0 : Multi-diffusion model cache (Generative Expand)\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 System Requirements\b0\fs24\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab \b Adobe Illustrator\b0 : Version 2024 or later (any version with GenAI features)\par
\bullet\tab \b Operating System\b0 : macOS or Windows\par
\bullet\tab \b Permissions\b0 : Write access to Illustrator preferences folder\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Installation\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs28 Method 1: Direct Installation\b0\fs24\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 1.\tab Download the \f1 GenAI Cache Cleaner 1.3.jsx\f0  file from this repository\par
2.\tab Copy it to your Illustrator Scripts folder:\par
\pard\fi-360\li1080\bullet\tab \b macOS\b0 : \f1 /Applications/Adobe Illustrator [Version]/Presets/[Language]/Scripts/\f0\par
\bullet\tab \b Windows\b0 : \f1 C:\\Program Files\\Adobe\\Adobe Illustrator [Version]\\Presets\\en_US\\Scripts\\\f0\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Method 2: Run from Any Location\b0\fs24\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 1.\tab Download the \f1 GenAI Cache Cleaner 1.3.jsx\f0  file\par
2.\tab In Illustrator, go to \b File > Scripts > Other Script...\b0\par
3.\tab Navigate to the downloaded file and select it\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Usage\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs28 Running the Script\b0\fs24\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 1.\tab \b From the Scripts Menu\b0  (if installed):\par
\pard\fi-360\li1080\bullet\tab Open Adobe Illustrator\par
\bullet\tab Go to \b File > Scripts > GenAI Cache Cleaner 1.3\b0\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 2.\tab \b From File Browser\b0 :\par
\pard\fi-360\li1080\bullet\tab Open Adobe Illustrator\par
\bullet\tab Go to \b File > Scripts > Other Script...\b0\par
\bullet\tab Select the \f1 GenAI Cache Cleaner 1.3.jsx\f0  file\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Using the Interface\b0\fs24\par
\par
The script will open a dialog window displaying:\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 1.\tab \b Preferences Path\b0 : Shows the location of your Illustrator preferences folder\par
2.\tab \b Check All Folders\b0 : Master checkbox to select/deselect all cache folders at once\par
3.\tab \b Cache Folders List\b0 : Each GenAI cache folder with:\par
\pard\fi-360\li1080\bullet\tab Folder name\par
\bullet\tab Number of items (in parentheses)\par
\bullet\tab Total size in MB\par
\bullet\tab Checkbox for selection\par
\bullet\tab Clickable name to open folder in file explorer\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 4.\tab \b Total Size\b0 : Sum of all GenAI cache folders\par
5.\tab \b Action Buttons\b0 :\par
\pard\fi-360\li1080\bullet\tab \b Delete Selected\b0 : Remove checked cache folders\par
\bullet\tab \b Open Prefs\b0 : Open the preferences folder in file explorer\par
\bullet\tab \b Close\b0 : Exit the script\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Step-by-Step Cleanup\b0\fs24\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 1.\tab \b Review\b0 : Examine the list of cache folders and their sizes\par
2.\tab \b Select\b0 : Check the boxes next to folders you want to delete\par
3.\tab \b Confirm\b0 : Click "Delete Selected"\par
4.\tab \b Verify\b0 : Review the confirmation dialog showing what will be deleted\par
5.\tab \b Executez\b0 : Confirm to proceed with deletion\par
6.\tab \b Results\b0 : View the deletion report showing files and folders removed\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Understanding the Display\b0\fs24\par
\par
\f1 GenAITextToVectors (45) 234.5 MB\f0\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab \f1 GenAITextToVectors\f0 : Cache folder name\par
\bullet\tab \f1 (45)\f0 : Number of subfolders/items\par
\bullet\tab \f1 234.5 MB\f0 : Total size on disk\par
\par
\pard Grayed out entries indicate empty or non-existent folders.\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 How It Works\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs28 Folder Detection\b0\fs24\par
\par
The script uses a sophisticated multi-step approach to locate your Illustrator preferences:\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 1.\tab \b Version Detection\b0 : Extracts major.minor version from \f1 app.version\f0  (e.g., "30.1")\par
2.\tab \b Channel Detection\b0 : Identifies if running Stable, Beta, or Prerelease build\par
3.\tab \b Path Construction\b0 : Tries multiple naming patterns:\par
\pard\fi-360\li1080\bullet\tab \f1 Adobe Illustrator 30.1 Settings\f0\par
\bullet\tab \f1 Adobe Illustrator 30.1 Beta Settings\f0\par
\bullet\tab \f1 Adobe Illustrator 30.1 Prerelease Settings\f0\par
\pard\fi-360\li720 4.\tab \b Locale Support\b0 : Checks for locale-specific folders (en_US, en_GB, etc.)\par
5.\tab \b Platform-Specific Paths\b0 :\par
\pard\fi-360\li1080\bullet\tab \b macOS\b0 : \f1 ~/Library/Preferences/Adobe Illustrator [version] Settings/\f0\par
\bullet\tab \b Windows\b0 : \f1 %APPDATA%\\Adobe\\Adobe Illustrator [version] Settings\\\f0\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Safe Deletion\b0\fs24\par
\par
The script implements recursive deletion with error handling:\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab Traverses all subfolders and files\par
\bullet\tab Attempts to delete files before folders\par
\bullet\tab Tracks success/failure for each operation\par
\bullet\tab Reports detailed results including any errors\par
\bullet\tab Preserves preferences folder structure\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Troubleshooting\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs28 Cache Folders Reappear\b0\fs24\par
\par
This is normal behavior. Illustrator recreates cache folders as you use GenAI features. Run the cleaner periodically to manage disk space.\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Technical Details\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs28 File Format\b0\fs24\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab \b Language\b0 : ExtendScript (Adobe's extended JavaScript)\par
\bullet\tab \b Compatibility\b0 : Illustrator CC 2024 and later\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Cache Folder Locations\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b macOS:\b0\par
\f1 ~/Library/Preferences/Adobe Illustrator [version] Settings/[locale]/GenAI*/\f0\par
\par
\b Windows:\b0\par
\f1 %APPDATA%\\Adobe\\Adobe Illustrator [version] Settings\\[locale]\\GenAI*\\\f0\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 FAQ\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b Q: Will this delete my Illustrator settings or preferences?\b0\par
A: No, it only deletes GenAI cache folders. Your artboards, swatches, brushes, and other preferences remain untouched.\par
\par
\b Q: Do I need to restart Illustrator after cleaning?\b0\par
A: No.\par
\par
\b Q: How much space can I expect to free up?\b0\par
A: Varies by usage. Heavy GenAI users may free 500MB-2GB or more.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I run this on multiple Illustrator versions?\b0\par
A: Yes, run the script from each version to clean its specific caches.\par
\par
\b Q: Is it safe to delete all cache folders?\b0\par
A: Yes, these are temporary cache files.\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Version History\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs28 Version 1.3 (Current)\b0\fs24\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab Added "Check All Folders" checkbox for quick selection/deselection of all cache folders\par
\bullet\tab Improved user workflow for bulk operations\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Version 1.2\b0\fs24\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab Enhanced version detection using major.minor format\par
\bullet\tab Improved support for Beta and Prerelease channels\par
\bullet\tab Better cross-platform folder detection\par
\bullet\tab Optimized UI with clickable folder names\par
\bullet\tab Improved error handling and reporting\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Version 1.1\b0\fs24\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab Added multi-locale support\par
\bullet\tab Enhanced folder statistics\par
\bullet\tab Improved deletion confirmation dialog\par
\par

\pard\b\fs28 Version 1.0\b0\fs24\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\bullet\tab Initial release\par
\bullet\tab Basic cache detection and deletion\par
\bullet\tab Simple UI interface\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Author\b0\fs24\par
\par
Created by jctremblay65 (https://github.com/jctremblay65)\par
Jean-Claude Tremblay - Services Proficiografik\par
\par

\pard\b\fs36 Disclaimer\b0\fs24\par
\par
This script is provided as-is without warranty. While designed to be safe, always ensure you have backups of important data. The author is not responsible for any data loss or issues arising from the use of this script.\par
\par
\pard\qc _______________________________________________\par
\par

\pard\b Need Help?\b0  Open an issue on GitHub: https://github.com/jctremblay65/GenAI-Cache-Cleaner/issues\par
\par
\b Like this tool?\b0  Give it a star on GitHub!\par
}
